# cornellPython
Python code from class at cornell

For the first question, I asked the user to input a collection of 5 integers. I created a list that contained the users inputs so I could sort them. I decided to take the first number and compare it with every other integer in the list. I started with the first number(the 0th element in the list). I made two new variables called min and max that were both the 0th element. I could either use a for loop or a while loop to compare the numbers. If my min variable was greater than any other value, I would know to set min to the smaller value. I did the same type of for loop for max. Finally, I used a for loop to add all the integers in my list. Total started at 0 and in every loop the value of the next integer was added to total. My last step was to divide by the number of elements in the list. If I had more time I would have liked to figure out how to have the user input as many integers as they want instead of just 5 integers. 

The second question was more difficult for me. Since I knew the code to find a specific character in a string, I decided to create a list with a bunch of characters and search the users input for each character. I recognize this might not have been the smartest way because I had to plug in each character and i still don’t have them all, I want to find a different way to solve this without my long list. First, I had to check if a character existed in the string, so I used a for loop to find specific characters. If the character existed I added it to an empty list. Next, I had to find the frequency of each character, I used another for loop to count the frequency of each character in the list just made. I had two lists that corresponded: one for the existing characters and the other for the frequency of each(ex: the first element in each list went together). My problem was that I had to put the frequencies in descending order without messing up which character it corresponded with. I used a nested for loop so that I could compare each element with every element after it and before it. (sketching it out helped me see it). If the number was greater than the other element, they will swap positions. I made sure that the elements were being swapped in the first and second list so it wouldn’t mess up which frequency went with which character. This was a bit confusing and if I had more time I would like to find a more efficient way to solve this problem. Also, I would have liked to made a function called swap so I could use it twice within my nested for loop.

